BEGIN REPORT
REASON FOR VISIT: The patient is a 74-year-old woman who presents for neurological consultation referred by Dr. Bart Maverick. She is accompanied to the appointment by her husband and together they give her history.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a lovely 74-year-old woman who presents with possible adult hydrocephalus. Danish is her native language, but she has been in the United States for many many years and speaks fluent English, as does her husband.

With respect to her walking and balance, she states "I think I walk funny." Her husband has noticed over the last six months or so that she has broadened her base and become more stooped in her pasture. Her balance has also gradually declined such that she frequently touches walls and furniture to stabilize herself. She has difficulty stepping up on to things like a scale because of this imbalance. She does not festinate. Her husband has noticed some slowing of her speed. She does not need to use an assistive device. She has occasional difficulty getting in and out of a car. Recently she has had more frequent falls. In March of 2007, she fell when she was walking to the bedroom and broke her wrist. Since that time, she has not had any emergency room trips, but she has had other falls.

With respect to her bowel and bladder, she has no issues and no trouble with frequency or urgency.

The patient does not have headaches.

With respect to thinking and memory, she states she is still able to pay the bills, but over the last few months she states, "I do not feel as smart as I used to be." She feels that her thinking has slowed down. Her husband states that he has noticed, she will occasionally start a sentence and then not know what words to use as she is continuing.

The patient has not had trouble with syncope. She has had past episodes of vertigo, but not recently.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for hypertension diagnosed in 2006, reflux in 2000, insomnia, but no snoring or apnea. She has been on Ambien, which is no longer been helpful. She has had arthritis since year 2000, thyroid abnormalities diagnosed in 1968, a hysterectomy in 1986, and a right wrist operation after her fall in 2007 with a titanium plate and eight screws.

FAMILY HISTORY: Her father died with heart disease in his 60s and her mother died of colon cancer. She has a sister who she believes is probably healthy. She has had two sons one who died of a blood clot after having been a heavy smoker and another who is healthy. She has two normal vaginal deliveries.

SOCIAL HISTORY: She lives with her husband. She is a nonsmoker and no history of drug or alcohol abuse. She does drink two to three drinks daily. She completed 12th grade.

ALLERGIES: Codeine and sulfa.

She has a Living Will and if unable to make decisions for herself, she would want her husband, Vilheim to make decisions for her.

MEDICATIONS: Premarin 0.625 mg p.o. q.o.d., Aciphex 20 mg p.o. q. daily, Toprol 50 mg p.o. q. daily, Norvasc 5 mg p.o. q. daily, multivitamin, Caltrate plus D, B-complex vitamins, calcium and magnesium, and vitamin C daily.

MAJOR FINDINGS: On examination today, this is a pleasant and healthy appearing woman.
VITAL SIGNS: Blood pressure 154/72, heart rate 87, and weight 153 pounds. Pain is 0/10.
HEAD: Head is normocephalic and atraumatic. Head circumference is 54 cm, which is in the 10-25th percentile for a woman who is 5 foot and 6 inches tall.
SPINE: Spine is straight and nontender. Spinous processes are easily palpable. She has very mild kyphosis, but no scoliosis.
SKIN: There are no neurocutaneous stigmata.
CARDIOVASCULAR EXAM: Regular rate and rhythm. No carotid bruits. No edema. No murmur. Peripheral pulses are good. Lungs are clear.
MENTAL STATUS: Assessed for recent and remote memory, attention span, concentration, and fund of knowledge. She scored 30/30 on the MMSE when attention was tested with either spelling or calculations. She had no difficulty with visual structures.
CRANIAL NERVES: Pupils are equal. Extraocular movements are intact. Face is symmetric. Tongue and palate are midline. Jaw muscles strong. Cough is normal. SCM and shrug 5 and 5. Visual fields intact.
MOTOR EXAM: Normal for bulk, strength, and tone. There was no drift or tremor.
SENSORY EXAM: Intact for pinprick and proprioception.
COORDINATION: Normal for finger-to-nose.
REFLEXES: Are 2+ throughout.
GAIT: Assessed using the Tinetti assessment tool. She was fairly quick, but had some unsteadiness and a widened base. She did not need an assistive device. I gave her a score of 13/16 for balance and 9/12 for gait for a total score of 22/28.

REVIEW OF X-RAYS: MRI was reviewed from June 26, 2008. It shows mild ventriculomegaly with a trace expansion into the temporal horns. The frontal horn span at the level of foramen of Munro is 3.8 cm with a flat 3rd ventricular contour and a 3rd ventricular span of 11 mm. The sylvian aqueduct is patent. There is no pulsation artifact. Her corpus callosum is bowed and effaced. She has a couple of small T2 signal abnormalities, but no significant periventricular signal change.

ASSESSMENT: The patient is a 74-year-old woman who presents with mild progressive gait impairment and possible slowing of her cognition in the setting of ventriculomegaly suggesting possible adult hydrocephalus.

PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES:
1. Possible adult hydrocephalus (331.5).
2. Mild gait impairment (781.2).
3. Mild cognitive slowing (290.0).

PLAN: I had a long discussion with the patient her husband.

I think it is possible that the patient is developing symptomatic adult hydrocephalus. At this point, her symptoms are fairly mild. I explained to them the two methods of testing with CSF drainage. It is possible that a large volume lumbar puncture would reveal whether she is likely to respond to shunt and I described that test. About 30% of my patients with walking impairment in a setting of possible adult hydrocephalus can be diagnosed with a large volume lumbar puncture. Alternatively, I could bring her into the hospital for four days of CSF drainage to determine whether she is likely to respond to shunt surgery. This procedure carries a 2% to 3% risk of meningitis. I also explained that it would be reasonable to start with an outpatient lumbar puncture and if that is not sufficient we could proceed with admission for the spinal catheter protocol. 
END REPORT

BEGIN REPORT
CC: Left hand numbness on presentation; then developed lethargy later that da.

HX: On the day of presentation, this 72 y/o RHM suddenly developed generalized weakness and lightheadedness, and could not rise from a chair. Four hours later he experienced sudden left hand numbness lasting two hours. There were no other associated symptoms except for the generalized weakness and lightheadedness. He denied vertigo.

He had been experiencing falling spells without associated LOC up to several times a month for the past year.

MEDS: procardia SR, Lasix, Ecotrin, KCL, Digoxin, Colace, Coumadin.

PMH: 1)8/92 evaluation for presyncope (Echocardiogram showed: AV fibrosis/calcification, AV stenosis/insufficiency, MV stenosis with annular calcification and regurgitation, moderate TR, Decreased LV systolic function, severe LAE. MRI brain: focal areas of increased T2 signal in the left cerebellum and in the brainstem probably representing microvascular ischemic disease. IVG (MUGA scan)revealed: global hypokinesis of the LV and biventricular dysfunction, RV ejection Fx 45% and LV ejection Fx 39%. He was subsequently placed on coumadin severe valvular heart disease), 2)HTN, 3)Rheumatic fever and heart disease, 4)COPD, 5)ETOH abuse, 6)colonic polyps, 7)CAD, 8)CHF, 9)Appendectomy, 10)Junctional tachycardia.

FHX: stroke, bone cancer, dementia.

SHX: 2ppd smoker since his teens; quit 2 years ago. 6-pack beer plus 2 drinks per day for many years: now claims he has been dry for 2 years. Denies illicit drug use.

EXAM: 36.8C, 90BPM, BP138/56.

MS: Alert and oriented to person, place, but not date. Hypophonic and dysarthric speech. 2/3 recall. Followed commands.

CN: Left homonymous hemianopia and left CN7 nerve palsy (old).

MOTOR: full strength throughout.

SENSORY: unremarkable.

COORDINATION: dysmetric FNF and HKS movements (left worse than right).

STATION: RUE pronator drift and Romberg sign present.

GAIT: shuffling and bradykinetic.

REFLEXES: 1+/1+ to 2+/2+ and symmetric throughout. Plantar responses were flexor bilaterally.

HEENT: Neck supple and no carotid bruits.

CV: RRR with 3/6 SEM and diastolic murmurs throughout the precordium.

Lungs: bibasilar crackles.

LABS: PT 19 (elevated) and PTT 46 (elevated).

COURSE: Coumadin was discontinued on admission as he was felt to have suffered a right hemispheric stroke. The initial HCT revealed a subtle low density area in the right occipital lobe and no evidence of hemorrhage. He was scheduled to undergo an MRI Brain scan the same day, and shortly before the procedure became lethargic. By the time the scan was complete he was stuporous. MRI Scan then revealed a hypointense area of T1 signal in the right temporal lobe with a small foci of hyperintensity within it. The hyperintense area seen on T1 weighted images appeared hypointense on T2 weighted images. There was edema surrounding the lesion The findings were consistent with a hematoma. A CT scan performed 4 hours later confirmed a large hematoma with surrounding edema involving the right temporal/parietal/occipital lobes. The patient subsequently died. 

Description: Patient experiences a dull pain in his upper outer arm. It occurs on a daily basis. He also experiences an achy sensation in his right hand radiating to the fingers. There is no numbness or paresthesias in the hand or arm.
END REPORT
BEGIN REPORT
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 58-year-old right-handed gentleman who presents for further evaluation of right arm pain. He states that a little less than a year ago he developed pain in his right arm. It is intermittent, but has persisted since that time. He describes that he experiences a dull pain in his upper outer arm. It occurs on a daily basis. He also experiences an achy sensation in his right hand radiating to the fingers. There is no numbness or paresthesias in the hand or arm.

He has had a 30-year history of neck pain. He sought medical attention for this problem in 2006, when he developed ear pain. This eventually led to him undergoing an MRI of the cervical spine, which showed some degenerative changes. He was then referred to Dr. James Garner for treatment of neck pain. He has been receiving epidural injections under the care of Dr. Garner since 2007. When I asked him what symptom he is receiving the injections for, he states that it is for neck pain and now the more recent onset of arm pain. He also has taken several Medrol dose packs, which has caused his blood sugars to increase. He is taking multiple other pain medications. The pain does not interfere significantly with his quality of life, although he has a constant nagging pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: He has had diabetes since 2003. He also has asthma, hypertension, and hypercholesterolemia.

CURRENT MEDICATIONS: He takes ACTOplus, albuterol, AndroGel, Astelin, Diovan, Dolgic Plus, aspirin 81 mg, fish oil, Lipitor, Lorazepam, multivitamins, Nasacort, Pulmicort, ranitidine, Singulair, Viagra, Zetia, Zyrtec, and Uroxatral. He also uses Lidoderm patches and multiple eye drops and creams.

ALLERGIES: He states that Dyazide, Zithromax, and amoxicillin cause him to feel warm and itchy.

FAMILY HISTORY: His father died from breast cancer. He also had diabetes. He has a strong family history of diabetes. His mother is 89. He has a sister with diabetes. He is unaware of any family members with neurological disorders.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He lives alone. He works full time in Human Resources for the State of Maryland. He previously was an alcoholic, but quit in 1984. He also quit smoking cigarettes in 1984, after 16 years of smoking. He has a history of illicit drug use, but denies IV drug use. He denies any HIV risk factors and states that his last HIV test was over two years ago.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: He has intermittent chest discomfort. He has chronic tinnitus. He has urinary dribbling. Otherwise, a complete review of systems was obtained and was negative except for as mentioned above. This is documented in the handwritten notes from today's visit.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Vital Signs: HR 72. RR 16.
General Appearance: Patient is well appearing, in no acute distress.
Cardiovascular: There is a regular rhythm without murmurs, gallops, or rubs. There are no carotid bruits.
Chest: The lungs are clear to auscultation bilaterally.
Skin: There are no rashes or lesions.

NEUROLOGICAL EXAMINATION:
Mental Status: Speech is fluent without dysarthria or aphasia. The patient is alert and oriented to name, place, and date. Attention, concentration, registration, recall, and fund of knowledge are all intact.

Cranial Nerves: Pupils are equal, round, and reactive to light and accommodation. Optic discs are normal. Visual fields are full. Extraocular movements are intact without nystagmus. Facial sensation is normal. There is no facial, jaw, palate, or tongue weakness. Hearing is grossly intact. Shoulder shrug is full.

Motor: There is normal muscle bulk and tone. There is no atrophy or fasciculations. There is no action or percussion myotonia or paramyotonia. Manual muscle testing reveals MRC grade 5/5 strength in all proximal and distal muscles of the upper and lower extremities.

Sensory: Sensation is intact to light touch, pinprick, temperature, vibratory sensation, and joint position sense. Romberg is absent.

Coordination: There is no dysmetria or ataxia on finger-nose-finger or heel-to-shin testing.

Deep Tendon Reflexes: Deep tendon reflexes are 2+ at the biceps, triceps, brachioradialis, patellas and ankles. Plantar reflexes are flexor. There are no finger flexors, Hoffman's sign, or jaw jerk.

Gait and Stance: Casual gait is normal. Heel, toe, and tandem walking are all normal.

RADIOLOGIC DATA: MRI of the cervical spine, 05/19/08: I personally reviewed this film, which showed narrowing of the foramen on the right at C4-C5 and other degenerative changes without central stenosis.

IMPRESSION: The patient is a 58-year-old gentleman with one-year history of right arm pain. He also has a longstanding history of neck pain. His neurological examination is normal. He has an MRI that shows some degenerative changes. I do believe that his symptoms are probably referable to his neck. However, I do not think that they are severe enough for him to undergo surgery at this point in time. Perhaps another course of physical therapy may be helpful for him. I probably would not recommend anymore invasive procedure, such as a spinal stimulator, as this pain really is minimal. We could still try to treat him with neuropathic pain medications.

RECOMMENDATIONS:
1. I scheduled him to return for an EMG and nerve conduction studies to determine whether there is any evidence of nerve damage, although I think the likelihood is low.
2. I gave him a prescription for Neurontin. I discussed the side effects of the medication with him.
3. We can discuss his case tomorrow at Spine Conference to see if there are any further recommendations. 

END REPORT
BEGIN REPORT

CC: Headache.

HX: 63 y/o RHF first seen by Neurology on 9/14/71 for complaint of episodic vertigo. During that evaluation she described a several year history of "migraine" headaches. She experienced her first episode of vertigo in 1969. The vertigo (clockwise) typically began suddenly after lying down, and was not associated with nausea/vomiting/headache. The vertigo had not been consistently associated with positional change and could last hours to days.

On 3/15/71, after 5 day bout of vertigo, right ear ache, and difficulty ambulating (secondary to the vertigo) she sought medical attention and underwent an audiogram which reportedly showed a 20% decline in low tone acuity AD. She complained of associated tinnitus which she described as a "whistle." In addition, her symptoms appeared to worsen with changes in head position (i.e. looking up or down). The symptoms gradually resolved and she did well until 8/71 when she experienced a 19-day episode of vertigo, tinnitus and intermittent headaches. She was seen 9/14/71, in Neurology, and admitted for evaluation.

Her neurologic exam at that time was unremarkable except for prominent bilateral systolic carotid bruits. Cerebral angiogram revealed an inoperable 7 x 6cm AVM in the right parietal region. The AVM was primarily fed by the right MCA. Otolaryngologic evaluation concluded that she probably also suffered from Meniere's disease.

On 10/14/74 she underwent a 21 day admission for SAH secondary to right parietal AVM.

On 11/23/91 she was admitted for left sided weakness (LUE > LLE), headache, and transient visual change. Neurological exam confirmed left sided weakness, and dysesthesia of the LUE only. Brain CT confirmed a 3 x 4 cm left parietal hemorrhage. She underwent unsuccessful embolization. Neuroradiology had planned to do 3 separate embolizations, but during the first, via the left MCA, they were unable to cannulate many of the AVM vessels and abandoned the procedure. She recovered with residual left hemisensory loss.

In 12/92 she presented with an interventricular hemorrhage and was managed conservatively and refused any future neuroradiologic intervention.

In 1/93 she reconsidered neurointerventional procedure and was scheduled for evaluation at the Barrows Neurological Institute in Phoenix, AZ. 

Description: Pneumonia in the face of fairly severe Crohn disease with protein-losing enteropathy and severe malnutrition with anasarca. He also has anemia and leukocytosis, which may be related to his Crohn disease as well as his underlying pneumonia.
END REPORT
BEGIN REPORT
DIAGNOSES:
1. Pneumonia.
2. Crohn disease.
3. Anasarca.
4. Anemia.

CHIEF COMPLAINT: I have a lot of swelling in my legs.

HISTORY: The patient is a 41-year-old gentleman with a long history of Crohn disease. He has been followed by Dr. Vivian S. Lee, his primary care doctor, but he states that he has had multiple gastroenterology doctors and has not seen one in the past year to 18 months. He has been treated with multiple different medications for his Crohn disease and most recently has been taking pulses of steroids off and on when he felt like he was having symptoms consistent with crampy abdominal pain, increased diarrhea, and low-grade fevers. This has helped in the past, but now he developed symptoms consistent with pneumonia and was admitted to the hospital. He has been treated with IV antibiotics and is growing Streptococcus. At this time, he seems relatively stable although slightly dyspneic. Other symptoms include lower extremity edema, pain in his ankles and knees, and actually symptoms of edema in his entire body including his face and upper extremities. At this time, he continues to have symptoms consistent with diarrhea and malabsorption. He also has some episodes of nausea and vomiting at times. He currently has a cough and symptoms of dyspnea. Further review of systems was not otherwise contributory.

MEDICATIONS:
1. Prednisone.
2. Effexor.
3. Folic acid.
4. Norco for pain.

PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As mentioned above, but he also has anxiety and depression.

PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1. Small bowel resections.
2. Appendectomy.
3. A vasectomy.

ALLERGIES: He has no known drug allergies.

SOCIAL HISTORY: He does smoke two packs of cigarettes per day. He has no alcohol or drug use. He is a painter.

FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for his father who died of IPF and irritable bowel syndrome.

REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: As mentioned in the history of present illness and further review of systems is not otherwise contributory.

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: He is a thin appearing man in very mild respiratory distress when his oxygen is off.
VITAL SIGNS: His respiratory rate is approximately 18 to 20, his blood pressure is 100/70, his pulse is 90 and regular, he is afebrile currently at 96, and weight is approximately 163 pounds.
HEENT: Sclerae anicteric. Conjunctivae normal. Nasal and oropharynx are clear.
NECK: Supple. No jugular venous pressure distention is noted. There is no adenopathy in the cervical, supraclavicular or axillary areas.
CHEST: Reveals some crackles in the right chest, in the base, and in the upper lung fields. His left is relatively clear with decreased breath sounds.
HEART: Regular rate and rhythm.
ABDOMEN: Slightly protuberant. Bowel sounds are present. He is slightly tender and it is diffuse. There is no organomegaly and no ascites appreciable.
EXTREMITIES: There is a mild scrotal edema and in his lower extremities he has 2 to 3+ edema at pretibial and lateral feet.
DERMATOLOGIC: Shows thin skin. No ecchymosis or petechiae.

LABORATORY STUDIES: Laboratory studies are pertinent for a total protein of 3 and albumin of 1.3. There is no M-spike observed. His B12 is 500 with a folic acid of 11. His white count is 21 with a hemoglobin of 10, and a platelet count 204,000.

IMPRESSION AT THIS TIME:
1. Pneumonia in the face of fairly severe Crohn disease with protein-losing enteropathy and severe malnutrition with anasarca.
2. He also has anemia and leukocytosis, which may be related to his Crohn disease as well as his underlying pneumonia.

ASSESSMENT AND PLAN: At this time, I believe evaluation of protein intake and dietary supplement will be most appropriate. I believe that he needs a calorie count. We will check on a sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, LDH, prealbumin, thyroid, and iron studies in the morning with his laboratory studies that are already ordered. I have recommended strongly to him that when he is out of the hospital, he return to the care of his gastroenterologist. I will help in anyway that I can to improve the patient's laboratory abnormalities. However, his lower extremity edema is primarily due to his marked hypoalbuminemia and I do not believe that diuretics will help him at this time. I have explained this in detail to the patient and his family. Everybody expresses understanding and all questions were answered. At this time, follow him up during his hospital stay and plan to see him in the office as well.

END REPORT 
BEGIN REPORT
IDENTIFYING DATA: The patient is a 21-year-old Caucasian male, who attempted suicide by trying to jump from a moving car, which was being driven by his mother. Additionally, he totaled his own car earlier in the day, both of which occurrences occurred approximately 72 hours before arriving at ABCD Hospital. He says he had a "panic attack leading to the car wreck" and denies that any of his behavior was suicidal in nature responding, "I was just trying to scare my mother."

CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient does say, "I screwed up my whole life and wrecked my car." The patient claims he is med compliant, although his mother, and stepfather saying he is off his meds. He had a two-day stay at XYZ Hospital for medical clearance after his car accident, and no injuries were found other than a sore back, which was negative by x-ray and CT scan.

PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is on a 72-your involuntary hold for danger to self and grave disability. He has a history of bipolar disorder with mania and depression with anxiety and panic attacks. Today, he went to involuntary court hearing and was released by the court. He is now being discharged from second floor ABCD Psychiatric Hospital.

PAST PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: Listed extensively in his admission note and will not be repeated.

MEDICAL HISTORY: Includes migraine headaches and a history of concussion. He describes "allergy" to Haldol medication.

OUTPATIENT CARE: The patient sees a private psychiatrist, Dr. Matthew H. Samore. Followup with Dr. Samore is arranged in four days' time and the patient is discharged with four days of medication. This information is known to Dr. Samore.

DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
The patient is discharged with:
1. Klonopin 1 mg t.i.d. p.r.n.
2. Extended-release lithium 450 mg b.i.d.
3. Depakote 1000 mg b.i.d.
4. Seroquel 1000 mg per day.

SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with his girlfriend on an on-and-off basis and is unclear if they will be immediately moving back in together.

SUBSTANCE ABUSE: The patient was actively tox screen positive for benzodiazepines, cocaine, and marijuana. The patient had an inpatient stay in 2008 at ABC Lodge for drug abuse treatment.

MENTAL STATUS EXAM: Notable for lack of primary psychotic symptoms, some agitation, and psychomotor hyperactivity, uncooperative behavior regarding his need for ongoing acute psychiatric treatment and stabilization. There is an underlying hostile oppositional message in his communications.

FORMULATION: The patient is a 21-year-old male with a history of bipolar disorder, anxiety, polysubstance abuse, and in addition ADHD. His recent behavior is may be at least in part associated with active polysubstance abuse and also appears to be a result of noncompliance with meds.

DIAGNOSES:
AXIS I:
1. Bipolar disorder.
2. Major depression with anxiety and panic attacks.
3. Polysubstance abuse, benzodiazepines, and others street meds.
4. ADHD.
AXIS II: Deferred at present, but consider personality disorder traits.
AXIS III: History of migraine headaches and past history of concussion.
AXIS IV: Stressors are moderate.
AXIS V: GAF is 40.

PLAN: The patient is released from the hospital secondary to court evaluation, which did not extend his involuntary stay. He has an appointment in four days with his outpatient psychiatrist, Dr. Samore. He has four days' worth of medications and agrees to no self-harm or harm of others. Additionally, he agrees to let staff know or authorities know if he becomes acutely unsafe. His mother and stepfather have been informed of the patient's discharge and the followup plan. 

END REPORT
BEGIN REPORT
IDENTIFYING DATA: The patient is a 35-year-old Caucasian female who speaks English.

CHIEF COMPLAINT: The patient has a manic disorder, is presently psychotic with flight of ideas, believes, "I can fly," tangential speech, rapid pressured speech and behavior, impulsive behavior. Last night, she tried to turn on the garbage disposal and put her hand in it, in the apartment shared by her husband. She then turned on the oven and put her head in the oven and then tried to climb over the second storied balcony. All of these behaviors were interrupted by her husband who called 911. He reports that she has not slept in 3 to 5 days and has not taken her meds in at least that time period.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was treated most recently at ABCD Hospital and decompensated during that admission resulting in her 90-day LR being revoked. After leaving ABCD approximately 01/25/2010, she stopped taking her Abilify and lithium. Her husband states that he restrained her from jumping, "so she would not kill herself," and this was taken as a statement in his affidavit. The patient was taken to X Hospital, medically cleared, given Ativan 2 mg p.o. and transferred on an involuntary status to XYZ Hospital. She arrives here and is today pacing on the unit and in and out of the large TV room area. She is friendly towards the patients although sometimes raises her voice and comes too close to other patients in a rapid manner. She is highly tangential, delusional, and disorganized. She refused to sign all admit papers and a considerable part of her immediate history is unknown.

PAST PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: The patient was last admitted to XYZ Hospital on January 14, 2009, and discharged on January 23, 2009. Please see the excellent discharge summary of Dr. Tony Middleton regarding this admission for information, which the patient is unable to give at the present. She is currently treated by Dr. Benjamin Franklin. She has been involuntarily detained at least 7 times and revoked at least 6 times. She was on XYZ Inpatient in 2001 and in 01/2009. She states that she "feels invincible" when she becomes manic and this is also the description given by her husband.

MEDICAL HISTORY: The patient has a history of a herniated disc in 1999.

MEDICATIONS: Current meds, which are her outpatient meds, which she is not taking at the moment are lithium 300 mg p.o. AM and 600 mg p.o. q.p.m., Abilify 15 mg p.o. per day, Lyrica 100 mg p.o. per day, it is not clear if she is taking Geodon as the record is conflicting in this regard. She is being given Vicodin, is not sure who the prescriber for that medication is and it is presumably due to her history of herniated disc. Of note, she also has a history of abusing Vicodin.

ALLERGIES: Said to be PENICILLIN, LAMICTAL, and ZYPREXA.

SOCIAL AND DEVELOPMENTAL HISTORY: The patient lives with her husband. There are no children. She reportedly has a college education and has 2 brothers.

SUBSTANCE AND ALCOHOL HISTORY: Per ABCD information, the patient has a history of abusing opiates, benzodiazepines, and Vicodin. The X Hospital tox screen of last night was positive for opiates. Her lithium level per last night at X Hospital was 0.42 mEq/L. She smokes nicotine, the amount is not known although she has asked and received Nicorette gum.

LEGAL HISTORY: She had a 90-day LR, which was revoked at ABCD Hospital, 12/ 25/2009, when she quickly deteriorated.

MENTAL STATUS EXAM:
ATTITUDE: The patient's attitude is agitated when asked questions, loud and evasive.
APPEARANCE: Disheveled and moderately well nourished.
PSYCHOMOTOR: Restless with erratic sudden movements.
EPS: None.
AFFECT: Hyperactive, hostile, and labile.
MOOD: Her mood is agitated, suspicious, and angry.
SPEECH: Circumstantial and sometimes intelligible when asked simple direct questions and at other points becomes completely tangential describing issues which are not real.
THOUGHT CONTENT: Delusional, disorganized, psychotic, and paranoid. Suicidal ideation, the patient refuses to answer the questions, but the record shows a past history of suicide attempt.
COGNITIVE ASSESSMENT: The patient was said on her nursing admit to be oriented to place and person, but could not answer that question for me, and appeared to think that she may still be at ABCD Hospital. Her recent, intermediate, and remote memory are impaired although there is a lack of cooperation in this testing.
JUDGMENT AND INSIGHT: Nil. When asked, are there situations when you lose control, she refuses to answer. When asked, are meds helpful, she refuses to answer. She refuses to give her family information nor release of information to contact them.
ASSETS: The patient has an outpatient psychiatrist and she does better or is more stable when taking her medications.
LIMITATIONS: The patient goes off her medications routinely, behaves unsafely and in a potentially suicidal manner.
FORMULATION: The patient has bipolar affective disorder in a manic state at present. She also may be depressed and is struggling with marital issues.

DIAGNOSES:
AXIS I:
1. Bipolar affective disorder, manic state.
2. Rule out depression.
AXIS II: Deferred.
AXIS III: History of herniated disc.
AXIS IV: Severe.
AXIS V: 10.

ESTIMATED LENGTH OF STAY: Fourteen days or longer.

RECOMMENDATIONS: Establish patient safety on the ward. Decrease her mania and psychosis and paranoid ideation. Expand the database including contacting family if she will allow. Resume medications also with the input from her outpatient psychiatrist if this is possible. Encourage the patient to engage in the treatment milieu and support her positive coping skills as they arise, providing psychoeducation.

She is on suicide precautions with line of sight level of monitoring at present because of her behavior within the last 24 hours clearly has suicidal potential and her inability to make meaningful statements of safety at the current time.
END REPORT
